doc/kernel/kernel.rst, before:

.. _zephyr_kernel:

The Zephyr Kernel
#################

The purpose of this section is to help you understand the operation of the kernel and its features.
This section also provides detailed information regarding the microkernel and the nanokernel
services. Finally, you can find the information regarding the kernel's drivers and networking
capabilities.

This section does not replace the Application Program Interface
documentation, rather, it offers additional information. The examples should provide
you with enough insight to understand the functionality of the services but are not
meant to replace the detailed in-code documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview/overview.rst
   common/common.rst
   microkernel/microkernel.rst
   nanokernel/nanokernel.rst
   drivers/drivers.rst
   networking/networking.rst

.. rubric:: Abbreviations

+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Abbreviations | Definition                                                        |
+===============+===================================================================+
| API           | Application Program Interface: typically a defined set            |
|               | of routines and protocols for building software inputs and output |
|               | mechanisms.                                                       |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ISR           | Interrupt Service Routine                                         |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| IDT           | Interrupt Descriptor Table                                        |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| XIP           | eXecute In Place                                                  |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

doc: Overhaul of Zephyr Kernel Primer overview section
A complete rewrite of the Overview section. The revised text
provides a more logical and comprehensive introduction to the
main concepts and capabilities of Zephyr, without providing
an excessive level of detail. (Those details should be provided
by the remaining sections of the Kernel Primer.)

This rewrite has also resulted in some small changes to the
About Zephyr and other Kernel Primer sections.

Change-Id: Idd4d5e0f0aabaaee8cd43d12563018ba4d8f7417
Signed-off-by: Allan Stephens <allan.stephens@windriver.com>

Former-commit-id: 46c5f12a1f15ed478e058d745d6e6533589238ef

doc/kernel/kernel.rst, after:

.. _zephyr_primer:

Zephyr Kernel Primer
####################

This section describes the major features of the Zephyr kernel
and how to use them.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   overview/overview.rst
   common/common.rst
   microkernel/microkernel.rst
   nanokernel/nanokernel.rst
   drivers/drivers.rst
   networking/networking.rst

.. rubric:: Abbreviations

+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Abbreviations | Definition                                                        |
+===============+===================================================================+
| API           | Application Program Interface: typically a defined set            |
|               | of routines and protocols for building software inputs and output |
|               | mechanisms.                                                       |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ISR           | Interrupt Service Routine                                         |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| IDT           | Interrupt Descriptor Table                                        |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| XIP           | eXecute In Place                                                  |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
