doc/kernel/microkernel/microkernel_task_irqs.rst, before:

.. _microkernel_task_irqs:

Interrupt Services
##################

Concepts
********

The microkernel's task IRQ objects allow interrupts to be serviced
by tasks, rather than interrupt service routines (ISRs).
This allows a microkernel project to have task-level device drivers,
in addition to interrupt-level device drivers.

Any number of task IRQs can be defined in a microkernel system.
Each task IRQ has a numeric identifier that uniquely identifies it.
These identifiers range from 0 to N-1, where N is the total number
of task IRQs in the system.

A task that wants to service interrupts from a device
must first allocate a task IRQ and bind it to the device's interrupt source
by specifying the IRQ and interrupt priority level
assigned to that device by the system designer.
Once a task IRQ has been allocated by a task
it cannot be utilized by other tasks;
this prevents other tasks from interfering with the proper processing
of interrupts from that device.

When an interrupt is generated by the device, the kernel
runs an ISR that masks the interrupt and signals the occurrence
of the interrupt to the associated task IRQ.
The task can then use the task IRQ to recognize that
an interrupt has occurred
and then take action to service the interrupt.
At some point during interrupt servicing
the task must instruct the task IRQ to acknowledge the interrupt;
this causes the kernel to unmask the interrupt
so that future interrupts can be detected.

When a task no longer needs a task IRQ it should free the task IRQ.
This disables the interrupt associated with the task IRQ
and makes the task IRQ available for re-allocation.


Purpose
*******

Use a task IRQ when the work required to process an interrupt
cannot be done in an ISR, either because it takes a long time
or it requires the processing routine to block.

Usage
*****

Configuring Task IRQs
=====================

Set the :option:`MAX_NUM_TASK_IRQS` configuration option
to specify the number of task IRQs allowed in the project.

The default value of zero for this option disables task IRQs.

.. note::

Task-level IRQs are microkernel objects, but are *not* configured in a
project MDEF file.


Example: Allocating a Task IRQ
==============================

This code associates a task IRQ with interrupts generated by a device.
Interrupts from that device are then enabled
so they can be processed using the task IRQ.

.. code-block:: c

   #define FOO_DEVICE 2    /* device "foo" uses task IRQ object 2 */
   #define FOO_IRQ 37      /* device "foo" uses IRQ 37 */
   #define FOO_PRIO 3      /* device "foo" uses interrupt priority 3 */

   if (task_irq_alloc(FOO_DEVICE, FOO_IRQ, FOO_PRIO) == INVALID_VECTOR) {
      /* The task IRQ or the interrupt source is not available */
      printf("Task IRQ allocation failed!");
   }


Example: Servicing Interrupts using a Task IRQ
==============================================

This code allows a task to wait for an interrupt from a device,
acknowledge the interrupt, and take the necessary steps to service it.

.. code-block:: c

   task_irq_test_wait(FOO_DEVICE);

   /* Device interrupt is now masked */
   /* Do pre-acknowledgement device processing (if any) */

   task_irq_ack(FOO_DEVICE);

   /* Device interrupt is now unmasked */
   /* Do post-acknowledgement device processing (if any) */


The steps required to service a device are device-specific.
In some cases all processing may need to be completed
before the interrupt is acknowledged,
while in other cases no processing at all should be done
until the interrupt is acknowledged.
Some devices may require processing both before and after acknowledgement.


Example: Freeing a Task IRQ
===========================

This code allows a task to disassociate a task IRQ
from interrupts generated by its associated device.
Interrupts from that device are no longer enabled.

.. code-block:: c

   task_irq_free(FOO_DEVICE);



APIs
****

The following task IRQ APIs are provided by :file:`microkernel.h`:

+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Call                                   | Description                       |
+========================================+===================================+
| :c:func:`task_irq_alloc()`             | Binds a task IRQ to a device      |
|                                        | and enables interrupts.           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_ack()`               | Acknowledges an interrupt and     |
|                                        | re-enables the interrupt.         |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_free()`              | Unbinds a task IRQ from a device  |
|                                        | and disables interrupts.          |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test()`              | Tests to determine if an          |
|                                        | interrupt has occurred.           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test_wait()`         | Waits for an interrupt to occur.  |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test_wait_timeout()` | Waits for an interrupt to occur   |
|                                        | within a specified time period.   |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Commit message:

doc: Clean up instructions for defining microkernel objects
Revise instructions to take advantage of the "public object"
and "private object" terminology now covered in the kernel
overview documentation. Also incorporates some missing information
the users need to be aware of when defining certain object types.

Change-Id: Ic0b359baf4443714c80200fdaff9cf2d253e6b99
Signed-off-by: Allan Stephens <allan.stephens@windriver.com>

Former-commit-id: d44e3804962bad951529337c777ed71ad069c84f

doc/kernel/microkernel/microkernel_task_irqs.rst, after:

.. _microkernel_task_irqs:

Interrupt Services
##################

Concepts
********

The microkernel's task IRQ objects allow interrupts to be serviced
by tasks, rather than interrupt service routines (ISRs).
This allows a microkernel project to have task-level device drivers,
in addition to interrupt-level device drivers.

Any number of task IRQs can be defined in a microkernel system.
Each task IRQ has a numeric identifier that uniquely identifies it.
These identifiers range from 0 to N-1, where N is the total number
of task IRQs in the system.

A task that wants to service interrupts from a device
must first allocate a task IRQ and bind it to the device's interrupt source
by specifying the IRQ and interrupt priority level
assigned to that device by the system designer.
Once a task IRQ has been allocated by a task
it cannot be utilized by other tasks;
this prevents other tasks from interfering with the proper processing
of interrupts from that device.

When an interrupt is generated by the device, the kernel
runs an ISR that masks the interrupt and signals the occurrence
of the interrupt to the associated task IRQ.
The task can then use the task IRQ to recognize that
an interrupt has occurred
and then take action to service the interrupt.
At some point during interrupt servicing
the task must instruct the task IRQ to acknowledge the interrupt;
this causes the kernel to unmask the interrupt
so that future interrupts can be detected.

When a task no longer needs a task IRQ it should free the task IRQ.
This disables the interrupt associated with the task IRQ
and makes the task IRQ available for re-allocation.


Purpose
*******

Use a task IRQ when the work required to process an interrupt
cannot be done in an ISR, either because it takes a long time
or it requires the processing routine to block.

Usage
*****

Configuring Task IRQs
=====================

Set the :option:`MAX_NUM_TASK_IRQS` configuration option
to specify the number of task IRQs allowed in the project.

The default value of zero for this option disables task IRQs.

.. note::
   Unlike most other microkernel object types, task-level IRQs are defined
   as a group using a configuration option, rather than as individual
   public objects in an .MDEF file or private objects in a source file.


Example: Allocating a Task IRQ
==============================

This code associates a task IRQ with interrupts generated by a device.
Interrupts from that device are then enabled
so they can be processed using the task IRQ.

.. code-block:: c

   #define FOO_DEVICE 2    /* device "foo" uses task IRQ object 2 */
   #define FOO_IRQ 37      /* device "foo" uses IRQ 37 */
   #define FOO_PRIO 3      /* device "foo" uses interrupt priority 3 */

   if (task_irq_alloc(FOO_DEVICE, FOO_IRQ, FOO_PRIO) == INVALID_VECTOR) {
      /* The task IRQ or the interrupt source is not available */
      printf("Task IRQ allocation failed!");
   }


Example: Servicing Interrupts using a Task IRQ
==============================================

This code allows a task to wait for an interrupt from a device,
acknowledge the interrupt, and take the necessary steps to service it.

.. code-block:: c

   task_irq_test_wait(FOO_DEVICE);

   /* Device interrupt is now masked */
   /* Do pre-acknowledgement device processing (if any) */

   task_irq_ack(FOO_DEVICE);

   /* Device interrupt is now unmasked */
   /* Do post-acknowledgement device processing (if any) */


The steps required to service a device are device-specific.
In some cases all processing may need to be completed
before the interrupt is acknowledged,
while in other cases no processing at all should be done
until the interrupt is acknowledged.
Some devices may require processing both before and after acknowledgement.


Example: Freeing a Task IRQ
===========================

This code allows a task to disassociate a task IRQ
from interrupts generated by its associated device.
Interrupts from that device are no longer enabled.

.. code-block:: c

   task_irq_free(FOO_DEVICE);



APIs
****

The following task IRQ APIs are provided by :file:`microkernel.h`:

+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Call                                   | Description                       |
+========================================+===================================+
| :c:func:`task_irq_alloc()`             | Binds a task IRQ to a device      |
|                                        | and enables interrupts.           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_ack()`               | Acknowledges an interrupt and     |
|                                        | re-enables the interrupt.         |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_free()`              | Unbinds a task IRQ from a device  |
|                                        | and disables interrupts.          |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test()`              | Tests to determine if an          |
|                                        | interrupt has occurred.           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test_wait()`         | Waits for an interrupt to occur.  |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| :c:func:`task_irq_test_wait_timeout()` | Waits for an interrupt to occur   |
|                                        | within a specified time period.   |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
