doc/doxygen/doxygen_guidelines_structs.rst, before:

.. _Structure Documentation:

Structure Documentation
#######################

Structures, or structs for short, require very little documentation.
Structs must be documented wherever they are defined. Basically,
structs only require a brief description detailing why they are needed.
Each variable that composes a struct must be commented. A fully
simplified syntax is therefore appropriate.

Structure Comments Template
***************************
Structs only have a simplified template:

.. literalinclude:: ex_struct_pre.c
   :language: c
   :lines: 1-11
   :emphasize-lines: 8
   :linenos:

Doxygen does not require any commands to recognize the different
comments. It does require that line 8 be left blank though.

Structure Documentation Example
*******************************

Correct:

.. literalinclude:: irq_test_common_commented.h
   :language: c
   :lines: 117-125
   :emphasize-lines: 6
   :linenos:

Make sure to start every comment with
:literal:`/**` and end it with :literal:`*/`. Every comment must start
with a capital letter and end with a period.

Doxygen requires that line 6 is left blank. Ensure a blank line
separates each group of variable and comment.

Incorrect:

.. literalinclude:: ../../samples/include/irq_test_common.h
   :language: c
   :lines: 112-115
   :emphasize-lines: 1
   :linenos:

The struct has no documentation. Developers that want to expand its
functionality have no way of understanding why the struct is defined
this way nor what its components are.

Commit message:

Doc: Edit to the Doxygen guidelines based on feedback.
Added a asterisk in front of every line of the comments to fully comply
with the Javadoc style. Updated all cross-references to comply with the
new style. Added a note indicating explicitly that enums are to be
documented just as structs. 

Change-Id: If017e14e3e478ec28befb5c1fcae92090f91c32e
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Caballero <rodrigo.caballero.abraham@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: 2dd21c199eca12ed2ffd2a4ff711ee7315b7b17d

doc/doxygen/doxygen_guidelines_structs.rst, after:

.. _structure_documentation:

Structure Documentation
#######################

Structures, or structs for short, require very little documentation.
Structs must be documented wherever they are defined. Basically,
structs only require a brief description detailing why they are needed.
Each variable that composes a struct must be commented. A fully
simplified syntax is therefore appropriate.

.. note::

   Follow the same rules as struct when documenting an enum. Use the
   simplified syntax to add the brief description.

Structure Comments Template
***************************
Structs only have a simplified template:

.. literalinclude:: ex_struct_pre.c
   :language: c
   :lines: 1-11
   :emphasize-lines: 8
   :linenos:

Doxygen does not require any commands to recognize the different
comments. It does require that line 8 be left blank though.

Structure Documentation Example
*******************************

Correct:

.. literalinclude:: irq_test_common_commented.h
   :language: c
   :lines: 117-125
   :emphasize-lines: 6
   :linenos:

Make sure to start every comment with
:literal:`/**` and end it with :literal:`*/`. Every comment must start
with a capital letter and end with a period.

Doxygen requires that line 6 is left blank. Ensure a blank line
separates each group of variable and comment.

Incorrect:

.. literalinclude:: ../../samples/include/irq_test_common.h
   :language: c
   :lines: 112-115
   :emphasize-lines: 1
   :linenos:

The struct has no documentation. Developers that want to expand its
functionality have no way of understanding why the struct is defined
this way nor what its components are.
