doc/doxygen/doxygen_guidelines.rst, before:

.. _In-Code Documentation Guidelines:

In-Code Documentation Guidelines
################################

Follow these guidelines to document your code using comments. We
provide examples on how to comment different parts of the code. Files,
functions, defines, structures, variables and type definitions must be
documented.

We have grouped the guidelines according to the object that is being
documented. Read the information regarding all elements carefully since
each type of object provides further details as to how to document the
code as a whole.

These simple rules apply to all the code that you wish to include in
the documentation:

#. Start and end a comment block with :literal:`/**` and :literal:`*/`

#. Use \@ for all Doxygen special commands.

#. Files, functions, defines, structures, variables and type
   definitions must have a brief description.

#. All comments must start with a capital letter and end in a period.
   Even if the comment is a sentence fragment.

.. important::

   Always use :literal:`/**` This is a comment. :literal:`*/` if that
   comment should become part of the documentation.
   Use :literal:`/*` This comment won't appear in the documentation :
   literal:`*/` for comments that you want in the code but not in the
   documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   doxygen_guidelines_files.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_functions.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_variables.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_defines.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_structs.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_typedefs.rst

Commit message:

Doc: Edit to the Doxygen guidelines based on feedback.
Added a asterisk in front of every line of the comments to fully comply
with the Javadoc style. Updated all cross-references to comply with the
new style. Added a note indicating explicitly that enums are to be
documented just as structs. 

Change-Id: If017e14e3e478ec28befb5c1fcae92090f91c32e
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Caballero <rodrigo.caballero.abraham@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: 2dd21c199eca12ed2ffd2a4ff711ee7315b7b17d

doc/doxygen/doxygen_guidelines.rst, after:

.. _code_documentation_guidelines:

In-Code Documentation Guidelines
################################

Follow these guidelines to document your code using comments. The |project|
follows the Javadoc Doxygen comments style. We provide examples on how to
comment different parts of the code. Files, functions, defines, structures,
variables and type definitions must be documented.

We have grouped the guidelines according to the object that is being
documented. Read sections carefully since each object provides further
details as to how to document the code as a whole.

These simple rules apply to all the code that you wish to include in
the documentation:

#. Start and end a comment block with :literal:`/**` and :literal:`*/`

#. Start each line of the comment with :literal:` * `

#. Use \@ for all Doxygen special commands.

#. Files, functions, defines, structures, variables and type
   definitions must have a brief description.

#. All comments must start with a capital letter and end in a period.
   Even if the comment is a sentence fragment.

.. note::

   Always use :literal:`/**` This is a comment. :literal:`*/` if that
   comment should become part of the documentation.
   Use :literal:`/*` This comment won't appear in the documentation :
   literal:`*/` for comments that you want in the code but not in the
   documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   doxygen_guidelines_files.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_functions.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_variables.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_defines.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_structs.rst
   doxygen_guidelines_typedefs.rst
