doc/README.rst, before:

Welcome to Zephyr Kernel
########################

.. This document is in Restructured Text Format.

   More information at `<http://sphinx-doc.org/rest.html>`_.
   This is a comment that won't show up in formatted output

Welcome to the |project|.

Thank you for your interest in the |project|. These instructions are
designed to walk you through generating the |project|'s documentation.


Documentation Notes
*******************

The project's documentation currently comprises the following items:

* An Installation Guide for Linux host systems

* A set of Collaboration Guidelines for the project.

* Raw Doxygen output from the code base.

Installing the documentation processors
***************************************

Install the current version of :program:`Sphinx`, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx.git sphinx

   $ cd sphinx

   $ sudo -E python setup.py install

   $ cd ..

   $ git clone https://github.com/michaeljones/breathe.git breathe

   $ cd breathe

   $ sudo -E python setup.py install

.. note::

   Make sure that :program:`Doxygen` is installed in your system.
   The installation of Doxygen is beyond the scope of this document.

Running the documentation generators
************************************

Assuming that the |project| tree with the doc directory is in
:file:`DIRECTORY`, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd DIRECTORY/doc

   $ make doxy html

Find the output in :file:`DIRECTORY/doc/_build/html/index.html`

Review the available formats with:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ make -C DIRECTORY/doc doxy html

If you want the LaTeX PDF output, you need to install all the Latex
packages first. That installation is beyond the scope of this document.

Commit message:

doc: project -> Zephyr Project
To make the documentation readable from the source I want to get rid of the
substitutions for the project name an code name. This does not add any values
and makes it unreadable when looking at the text files directly. It also causes
some issues when people use those without actually knowing what they represent,
resulting in some weird and redundant language.

Change-Id: Icc70eef90966ed19531c3406fe7a6d1866f7d81d
Signed-off-by: Anas Nashif <anas.nashif@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: e973119ef088841eefc48a87120e0cfa6c264940

doc/README.rst, after:

Welcome to Zephyr Kernel
########################

.. This document is in Restructured Text Format.

   More information at `<http://sphinx-doc.org/rest.html>`_.
   This is a comment that won't show up in formatted output

Welcome to the Zephyr Project.

Thank you for your interest in the Zephyr Project. These instructions are
designed to walk you through generating the Zephyr Project's documentation.


Documentation Notes
*******************

The project's documentation currently comprises the following items:

* An Installation Guide for Linux host systems

* A set of Collaboration Guidelines for the project.

* Raw Doxygen output from the code base.

Installing the documentation processors
***************************************

Install the current version of :program:`Sphinx`, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx.git sphinx

   $ cd sphinx

   $ sudo -E python setup.py install

   $ cd ..

   $ git clone https://github.com/michaeljones/breathe.git breathe

   $ cd breathe

   $ sudo -E python setup.py install

.. note::

   Make sure that :program:`Doxygen` is installed in your system.
   The installation of Doxygen is beyond the scope of this document.

Running the documentation generators
************************************

Assuming that the Zephyr Project tree with the doc directory is in
:file:`DIRECTORY`, type:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd DIRECTORY/doc

   $ make doxy html

Find the output in :file:`DIRECTORY/doc/_build/html/index.html`

Review the available formats with:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ make -C DIRECTORY/doc doxy html

If you want the LaTeX PDF output, you need to install all the Latex
packages first. That installation is beyond the scope of this document.
