doc/board/arduino_due.rst, before:

.. _arduino_due:

Board Configuration: arduino_due
################################

Overview
********

The arduino_due board configuration is used by Zephyr applications
that run on the Arduino Due board. It provides support for the Atmel
SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 CPU and the following devices:

* Nested Vectored Interrupt Controller (NVIC)

* System Tick System Clock (SYSTICK)

* Serial Port over USB (ATMEL_SAM3)

More information about the board can be found at the `Arduino Due website`_.
The `Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet`_ has the information and the datasheet about
the processor.

Supported Features
******************

The arduino_due board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface    | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+==============+============+======================+
| NVIC         | on-chip    | nested vectored      |
|              |            | interrupt controller |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| SYSTICK      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| UART         | on-chip    | serial port          |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the Zephyr kernel.
See `Arduino Due website`_ and `Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet`_ for a complete
list of Arduino Due board hardware features.

Interrupt Controller
====================

There are 15 fixed exceptions including exceptions 12 (debug
monitor) and 15 (SYSTICK) that behave more as interrupts
than exceptions. In addition, there can be a variable number
of IRQs. Exceptions 7-10 and 13 are reserved. They don't need
handlers.

A Cortex-M3/4-based board uses vectored exceptions. This
means each exception calls a handler directly from the
vector table.

Handlers are provided for exceptions 1-6, 11-12, and 14-15.
The table here identifies the handlers used for each exception.

+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| Exc# | Name       | Remarks        | Used by Zephyr Kernel    |
+======+============+================+==========================+
| 1    | Reset      |                | system initialization    |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 2    | NMI        |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 3    | Hard fault |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 4    | MemManage  | MPU fault      | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 5    | Bus        |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 6    | Usage      | undefined      | system fatal error       |
|      | fault      | instruction,   |                          |
|      |            | or switch      |                          |
|      |            | attempt to ARM |                          |
|      |            | mode           |                          |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 11   | SVC        |                | context switch and       |
|      |            |                | software interrupts      |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 12   | Debug      |                | system fatal error       |
|      | monitor    |                |                          |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 14   | PendSV     |                | context switch           |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 15   | SYSTICK    |                | system clock             |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+

.. note::
   After a reset, all exceptions have a priority of 0. Interrupts cannot run
   at priority 0 for the interrupt locking mechanism and exception handling
   to function properly.

System Clock
============

Arduino Due has two external oscillators/resonators. The slow clock is
32.768 kHz, and the main clock is 12 MHz. The processor can set up PLL to drive
the master clock, which can be set as high as 84 MHz.

Serial Port
===========

The Atmel SAM3X8E processor has a single UART that is used by the SAM-BA
bootloader. This UART has only two wires for RX/TX and does not have flow
control (CTS/RTS) or FIFO. The RX/TX pins are connected to the ATmega16U2,
which provides USB-to-TTL serial function. The Zephyr console output, by
default, is utilizing this controller.

Flashing Arduino Due for Zephyr
===============================

Flashing the Zephyr kernel onto Arduino Due requires the `bossa tool`_. Note
that the Arduino specific version is required (branch arduino on GitHub).


The sample application hello_world is being used in this tutorial, which can
be found in :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/samples/nanokernel/apps/hello_world`.

# To build the Zephyr kernel, enter:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
      $ make -C samples/nanokernel/apps/hello_world ARCH=arm BOARD=arduino_due

# Connect the Arduino Due to your host computer using the programming port.

# Press the Erase button for more than 220 ms.

# Press the Reset button so the board will boot into the SAM-BA bootloader.

# To flash the kernel onto Arduino Due, assuming the bossa tool already
  exists. Using the command line version of bossa, enter:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ bossac -p <tty_device> -e -w -v -b outdir/zephyr.bin

   Where :code:`<tty_device>` is where the Arduino Due can be found. For
   example, under Linux, :code:`<tty_device>` should be :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.

# Run your favorite terminal program to listen for output. For example, under
  Linux, the terminal should be :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.

# Press the Reset button and you should see "Hello World!" in your terminal.


References
==========

.. _Arduino Due website: https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/ArduinoBoardDue

.. _Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet: http://www.atmel.com/devices/sam3x8e.aspx

.. _bossa tool: https://github.com/shumatech/BOSSA

Commit message:

doc/boards: updates arduino_due for supported features...
... and adds a note about terminal and flashing.

Change-Id: I9b3fe9a8e9993ee68612d177aa4163fcf15e912d
Signed-off-by: Daniel Leung <daniel.leung@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: 9d727d8bdb5a760d06bbe095e444103e1d4c0931

doc/board/arduino_due.rst, after:

.. _arduino_due:

Board Configuration: arduino_due
################################

Overview
********

The arduino_due board configuration is used by Zephyr applications
that run on the Arduino Due board. It provides support for the Atmel
SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 CPU and the following devices:

* Nested Vectored Interrupt Controller (NVIC)

* System Tick System Clock (SYSTICK)

* Serial Port over USB (ATMEL_SAM3)

More information about the board can be found at the `Arduino Due website`_.
The `Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet`_ has the information and the datasheet about
the processor.

Supported Features
******************

The arduino_due board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface    | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+==============+============+======================+
| NVIC         | on-chip    | nested vectored      |
|              |            | interrupt controller |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| SYSTICK      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| UART         | on-chip    | serial port          |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| GPIO         | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+
| I2C          | on-chip    | i2c                  |
+--------------+------------+----------------------+

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the Zephyr kernel.
See `Arduino Due website`_ and `Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet`_ for a complete
list of Arduino Due board hardware features.

.. note::
   For I2C, pull-up resistors are required for using SCL1 and SDA1
   (near IO13).

Interrupt Controller
====================

There are 15 fixed exceptions including exceptions 12 (debug
monitor) and 15 (SYSTICK) that behave more as interrupts
than exceptions. In addition, there can be a variable number
of IRQs. Exceptions 7-10 and 13 are reserved. They don't need
handlers.

A Cortex-M3/4-based board uses vectored exceptions. This
means each exception calls a handler directly from the
vector table.

Handlers are provided for exceptions 1-6, 11-12, and 14-15.
The table here identifies the handlers used for each exception.

+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| Exc# | Name       | Remarks        | Used by Zephyr Kernel    |
+======+============+================+==========================+
| 1    | Reset      |                | system initialization    |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 2    | NMI        |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 3    | Hard fault |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 4    | MemManage  | MPU fault      | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 5    | Bus        |                | system fatal error       |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 6    | Usage      | undefined      | system fatal error       |
|      | fault      | instruction,   |                          |
|      |            | or switch      |                          |
|      |            | attempt to ARM |                          |
|      |            | mode           |                          |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 11   | SVC        |                | context switch and       |
|      |            |                | software interrupts      |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 12   | Debug      |                | system fatal error       |
|      | monitor    |                |                          |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 14   | PendSV     |                | context switch           |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+
| 15   | SYSTICK    |                | system clock             |
+------+------------+----------------+--------------------------+

.. note::
   After a reset, all exceptions have a priority of 0. Interrupts cannot run
   at priority 0 for the interrupt locking mechanism and exception handling
   to function properly.

System Clock
============

Arduino Due has two external oscillators/resonators. The slow clock is
32.768 kHz, and the main clock is 12 MHz. The processor can set up PLL to drive
the master clock, which can be set as high as 84 MHz.

Serial Port
===========

The Atmel SAM3X8E processor has a single UART that is used by the SAM-BA
bootloader. This UART has only two wires for RX/TX and does not have flow
control (CTS/RTS) or FIFO. The RX/TX pins are connected to the ATmega16U2,
which provides USB-to-TTL serial function. The Zephyr console output, by
default, is utilizing this controller.

Flashing Arduino Due for Zephyr
===============================

Flashing the Zephyr kernel onto Arduino Due requires the `bossa tool`_. Note
that the Arduino specific version is required (branch arduino on GitHub).


The sample application hello_world is being used in this tutorial, which can
be found in :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/samples/nanokernel/apps/hello_world`.

# To build the Zephyr kernel, enter:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
      $ make -C samples/nanokernel/apps/hello_world ARCH=arm BOARD=arduino_due

# Connect the Arduino Due to your host computer using the programming port.

# Press the Erase button for more than 220 ms.

# Press the Reset button so the board will boot into the SAM-BA bootloader.

# To flash the kernel onto Arduino Due, assuming the bossa tool already
  exists. Using the command line version of bossa, enter:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ bossac -p <tty_device> -e -w -v -b outdir/zephyr.bin

   Where :code:`<tty_device>` is where the Arduino Due can be found. For
   example, under Linux, :code:`<tty_device>` should be :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.

# Run your favorite terminal program to listen for output. For example, under
  Linux, the terminal should be :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.

# Press the Reset button and you should see "Hello World!" in your terminal.

.. note::
   Make sure your terminal program is closed before flashing the binary image,
   or it will interfere with the flashing process.

References
==========

.. _Arduino Due website: https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/ArduinoBoardDue

.. _Atmel SAM3X8E Datasheet: http://www.atmel.com/devices/sam3x8e.aspx

.. _bossa tool: https://github.com/shumatech/BOSSA
