doc/kernel/nanokernel/nanokernel_ring_buffers.rst, before:

.. _nanokernel_ring_buffers:

Nanokernel Ring Buffers
#######################

Definition
**********

The ring buffer is defined in :file:`include/misc/ring_buffer.h` and
:file:`kernel/nanokernel/ring_buffer.c`. This is an array-based
circular buffer, stored in first-in-first-out order. The APIs allow
for enqueueing and retrieval of chunks of data up to 1024 bytes in size,
along with two metadata values (type ID and an app-specific integer).

Unlike nanokernel FIFOs, storage of enqueued items and their metadata
is managed in a fixed buffer and there are no preconditions on the data
enqueued (other than the size limit). Since the size annotation is only
an 8-bit value, sizes are expressed in terms of 32-bit chunks.

Internally, the ring buffer always maintains an empty 32-bit block in the
buffer to distinguish between empty and full buffers. Any given entry
in the buffer will use a 32-bit block for metadata plus any data attached.
If the size of the buffer array is a power of two, the ring buffer will
use more efficient masking instead of expensive modulo operations to
maintain itself.

Concurrency
***********

Concurrency control of ring buffers is not implemented at this level.
Depending on usage (particularly with respect to number of concurrent
readers/writers) applications may need to protect the ring buffer with
mutexes and/or use semaphores to notify consumers that there is data to
read.

For the trivial case of one producer and one consumer, concurrency
shouldn't be needed.

Example: Initializing a Ring Buffer
===================================

There are three ways to initialize a ring buffer. The first two are through use
of macros which defines one (and an associated private buffer) in file scope.
You can declare a fast ring buffer that uses mask operations by declaring
a power-of-two sized buffer:

.. code-block:: c

    /* Buffer with 2^8 or 256 elements */
    SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_POW2(my_ring_buf, 8);

Arbitrary-sized buffers may also be declared with a different macro, but
these will always be slower due to use of modulo operations:

.. code-block:: c

    #define MY_RING_BUF_SIZE	93
    SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_SIZE(my_ring_buf, MY_RING_BUF_SIZE);


Alternatively, a ring buffer may be initialized manually. Whether the buffer
will use modulo or mask operations will be detected automatically:

.. code-block:: c
    #define MY_RING_BUF_SIZE	64

    struct my_struct {
        struct ring_buffer rb;
        uint32_t buffer[MY_RING_BUF_SIZE];
        ...
    };
    struct my_struct ms;

    void init_my_struct {
        sys_ring_buf_init(&ms.rb, sizeof(ms.buffer), ms.buffer);
        ...
    }

Example: Enqueuing data
=======================

.. code-block:: c
    int ret;

    ret = sys_ring_buf_put(&ring_buf, TYPE_FOO, 0, &my_foo, SIZE32_OF(my_foo));
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        ... not enough room for the message ..
    }

If the type or value fields are sufficient, the data pointer and size may be 0.

.. code-block:: c
    int ret;

    ret = sys_ring_buf_put(&ring_buf, TYPE_BAR, 17, NULL, 0);
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        ... not enough room for the message ..
    }

Example: Retrieving data
========================

.. code-block:: c

    int ret;
    uint32_t data[6];

    size = SIZE32_OF(data);
    ret = sys_ring_buf_get(&ring_buf, &type, &value, data, &size);
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        printk("Buffer is too small, need %d uint32_t\n", size);
    } else if (ret == -EAGAIN) {
        printk("Ring buffer is empty\n");
    } else {
        printk("got item of type %u value &u of size %u dwords\n",
               type, value, size);
        ...
    }

APIs
****

The following APIs for ring buffers are provided by :file:`ring_buffer.h`.

+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Call                                           | Description                        |
+================================================+====================================+
| :c:func:`sys_ring_buf_init()`                  | Initialize a ring buffer.          |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| :c:func:`SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_POW2()`          | Declare and init a file-scope      |
| :c:func:`SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_SIZE()`          | ring buffer.                       |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| :c:func:`sys_ring_buf_get_space()`             | Return the amount of free buffer   |
|                                                | storage space in 32-bit dwords     |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| :c:func:`sys_ring_buf_is_empty()`              | Indicate whether a buffer is empty |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| :c:func:`sys_ring_buf_put()`                   | Enqueue an item                    |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| :c:func:`sys_ring_buf_get()`                   | De-queue an item                   |
+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+

Commit message:

doc: Change API tables to lists in the Kernel Primer.
The tables in the Kernel Primer are changed to lists. Making it easier
to update them. Other minor changes were done to ensure consitency.
The :c: and :cpp: markup has been fixed. When the documentation for a
call exists, then it is linked.

Change-Id: I8f389a0a0ca7c5fe904c0a1fa520e2e499f1001b
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Caballero <rodrigo.caballero.abraham@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: c1c1ffe7f7679cfb2f6169d049ceebf23200bb34

doc/kernel/nanokernel/nanokernel_ring_buffers.rst, after:

.. _nanokernel_ring_buffers:

Nanokernel Ring Buffers
#######################

Definition
**********

The ring buffer is defined in :file:`include/misc/ring_buffer.h` and
:file:`kernel/nanokernel/ring_buffer.c`. This is an array-based
circular buffer, stored in first-in-first-out order. The APIs allow
for enqueueing and retrieval of chunks of data up to 1024 bytes in size,
along with two metadata values (type ID and an app-specific integer).

Unlike nanokernel FIFOs, storage of enqueued items and their metadata
is managed in a fixed buffer and there are no preconditions on the data
enqueued (other than the size limit). Since the size annotation is only
an 8-bit value, sizes are expressed in terms of 32-bit chunks.

Internally, the ring buffer always maintains an empty 32-bit block in the
buffer to distinguish between empty and full buffers. Any given entry
in the buffer will use a 32-bit block for metadata plus any data attached.
If the size of the buffer array is a power of two, the ring buffer will
use more efficient masking instead of expensive modulo operations to
maintain itself.

Concurrency
***********

Concurrency control of ring buffers is not implemented at this level.
Depending on usage (particularly with respect to number of concurrent
readers/writers) applications may need to protect the ring buffer with
mutexes and/or use semaphores to notify consumers that there is data to
read.

For the trivial case of one producer and one consumer, concurrency
shouldn't be needed.

Example: Initializing a Ring Buffer
===================================

There are three ways to initialize a ring buffer. The first two are through use
of macros which defines one (and an associated private buffer) in file scope.
You can declare a fast ring buffer that uses mask operations by declaring
a power-of-two sized buffer:

.. code-block:: c

    /* Buffer with 2^8 or 256 elements */
    SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_POW2(my_ring_buf, 8);

Arbitrary-sized buffers may also be declared with a different macro, but
these will always be slower due to use of modulo operations:

.. code-block:: c

    #define MY_RING_BUF_SIZE	93
    SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_SIZE(my_ring_buf, MY_RING_BUF_SIZE);

Alternatively, a ring buffer may be initialized manually. Whether the buffer
will use modulo or mask operations will be detected automatically:

.. code-block:: c
    #define MY_RING_BUF_SIZE	64

    struct my_struct {
        struct ring_buffer rb;
        uint32_t buffer[MY_RING_BUF_SIZE];
        ...
    };
    struct my_struct ms;

    void init_my_struct {
        sys_ring_buf_init(&ms.rb, sizeof(ms.buffer), ms.buffer);
        ...
    }

Example: Enqueuing data
=======================

.. code-block:: c
    int ret;

    ret = sys_ring_buf_put(&ring_buf, TYPE_FOO, 0, &my_foo, SIZE32_OF(my_foo));
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        ... not enough room for the message ..
    }

If the type or value fields are sufficient, the data pointer and size may be 0.

.. code-block:: c
    int ret;

    ret = sys_ring_buf_put(&ring_buf, TYPE_BAR, 17, NULL, 0);
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        ... not enough room for the message ..
    }

Example: Retrieving data
========================

.. code-block:: c

    int ret;
    uint32_t data[6];

    size = SIZE32_OF(data);
    ret = sys_ring_buf_get(&ring_buf, &type, &value, data, &size);
    if (ret == -EMSGSIZE) {
        printk("Buffer is too small, need %d uint32_t\n", size);
    } else if (ret == -EAGAIN) {
        printk("Ring buffer is empty\n");
    } else {
        printk("got item of type %u value &u of size %u dwords\n",
               type, value, size);
        ...
    }

APIs
****

The following APIs for ring buffers are provided by :file:`ring_buffer.h`:

:c:func:`sys_ring_buf_init()`
   Initializes a ring buffer.

:c:func:`SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_POW2()`,
:c:func:`SYS_RING_BUF_DECLARE_SIZE()`
   Declare and init a file-scope ring buffer.

:c:func:`sys_ring_buf_get_space()`
   Returns the amount of free buffer storage space in 32-bit dwords.

:c:func:`sys_ring_buf_is_empty()`
   Indicates whether a buffer is empty.

:c:func:`sys_ring_buf_put()`
   Enqueues an item.

:c:func:`sys_ring_buf_get()`
   De-queues an item.
