doc/kernel/nanokernel/nanokernel_interrupts.rst, before:

.. _nanokernel_interrupts:

Interrupt Services
##################

Concepts
********

:abbr:`ISRs (Interrupt Service Routines)` are execution threads
that run in response to a hardware or software interrupt.
They are used to preempt the execution of the
task or fiber running at the time of the interrupt,
allowing the response to occur with very low overhead.
When an ISR completes its normal task and fiber execution resumes.

Any number of ISRs can be utilized in a Zephyr project, subject to
any hardware constraints imposed by the underlying hardware.
Each ISR has the following properties:

* The :abbr:`IRQ (Interrupt ReQuest)` signal that triggers the ISR.
* The priority level associated with the IRQ.
* The address of the function that is invoked to handle the interrupt.
* The argument value that is passed to that function.

An :abbr:`IDT (Interrupt Descriptor Table)` is used to associate a given interrupt
source with a given ISR.
Only a single ISR can be associated with a specific IRQ at any given time.
An ISR can be incorporated into the IDT when the Zephyr project is built
(a "static ISR") or bound to the IDT when the system is up and running
(a "dynamic ISR").

Multiple ISRs can utilize the same function to process interrupts,
allowing a single function to service a device that generates
multiple types of interrupts or to service multiple devices
(usually of the same type). The argument value passed to an ISR's function
can be used to allow the function to determine which interrupt has been
signaled.

The Zephyr kernel provides a default ISR for all unused IDT entries. This ISR
generates a fatal system error if an unexpected interrupt is signaled.

The kernel supports interrupt nesting. This allows an ISR to be preempted
in mid-execution if a higher priority interrupt is signaled. The lower
priority ISR resumes execution once the higher priority ISR has completed
its processing.

The kernel allows a task or fiber to temporarily lock out the execution
of ISRs, either individually or collectively, should the need arise.
The collective lock can be applied repeatedly; that is, the lock can
be applied when it is already in effect. The collective lock must be
unlocked an equal number of times before interrupts are again processed
by the kernel.

Purpose
*******

Use an ISR to perform interrupt processing that requires a very rapid
response, and which can be done quickly and without blocking.

.. note::

   Interrupt processing that is time consuming, or which involves blocking,
   should be handed off to a fiber or task. See `Offloading ISR Work`_ for
   a description of various techniques that can be used in a Zephyr project.

Installing an ISR
*****************

Use one of the following procedures to install an ISR:

* `Installing a Static ISR`_
* `Installing a Dynamic ISR`_

Installing a Static ISR
=======================

Use a static ISR to register an interrupt handler when the interrupt
parameters are known during the build time and the device is always
present in the system.

.. note::

   There is no API method to uninstall a static ISR; however, it is
   possible to replace it by installing a dynamic ISR.

Prerequisites
-------------

* Ensure that the platform used by the project supports static ISRs.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c

   #define MY_DEV_IRQ  24       /* device uses IRQ 24 */
   #define MY_DEV_PRIO  2       /* device uses interrupt priority 2 */
   #define MY_ISR_ARG  17       /* argument passed to my_isr() */
   #define MY_IRQ_FLAGS 0       /* IRQ flags. Unused on non-x86 */

   void my_isr(void *arg)
   {
      ... /* ISR code */
   }

   IRQ_CONNECT_STATIC(my_dev, MY_DEV_IRQ, MY_DEV_PRIO, my_isr, MY_ISR_ARG,
       MY_IRQ_FLAGS);

   void my_isr_installer(void)
   {
      ...
      IRQ_CONFIG(my_dev, MY_DEV_IRQ); /* finish IRQ configuration */
      irq_enable(MY_DEV_IRQ);            /* enable IRQ */
      ...
   }

For x86 platforms only, you must also create an interrupt stub as follows:

.. code-block:: asm

   ioapic_mkstub my_dev my_isr

Installing a Dynamic ISR
========================

Use a dynamic ISR to register an interrupt handler when the interrupt
parameters can be found out only at runtime, or when a device is not always
present in the system.

.. note::

   There is no API method to uninstall a dynamic ISR; however, it is
   possible to replace it with a different dynamic ISR.

Prerequisites
-------------

* Ensure that the platform used by the project supports dynamic ISRs.

* (x86 only) Set the :option:`NUM_DYNAMIC_STUBS` configuration option
  to specify the maximum number of dynamic ISRs allowed in the project.

Example
-------

This is an example of a dynamic interrupt for x86:

.. code-block:: c

   #define MY_DEV_IRQ 24        /* device uses IRQ 24 */
   #define MY_DEV_PRIO 2        /* device uses interrupt priority 2 */
   #define MY_ISR_ARG 17        /* argument passed to my_isr() */
   /* IRQ flags. Interrupt is triggered by low level signal */
   #define MY_IRQ_FLAGS (IOAPIC_LEVEL | IOAPIC_LOW)

   void my_isr(void *arg)
   {
      ... /* ISR code */
   }

   void my_isr_installer(void)
   {
       ...
       irq_connect(MY_DEV_IRQ, MY_DEV_PRIO, my_isr, MY_ISR_ARG, MY_IRQ_FLAGS);
       ...
       irq_enable(MY_DEV_IRQ);
       ...
   }

Working with Interrupts
***********************

Use the following:

* `Offloading ISR Work`_
* `IDT Security`_

Offloading ISR Work
===================

Interrupt service routines should generally be kept short
to ensure predictable system operation.
In situations where time consuming processing is required
an ISR can quickly restore the kernel's ability to respond
to other interrupts by offloading some or all of the interrupt-related
processing work to a fiber or task.

Zephyr OS provides a variety of mechanisms to allow an ISR to offload work
to a fiber or task.

1. An ISR can signal a helper fiber (or task) to do interrupt-related work
   using a nanokernel object, such as a FIFO, LIFO, or semaphore.
   The :c:func:`nano_isr_XXX()` APIs should be used to notify the helper fiber
   (or task) that work is available for it.

   See :ref:`fiber_services`.

2. An ISR can signal the microkernel server fiber to do interrupt-related
   work by sending an event that has an associated event handler.

   See :ref:`microkernel_events`.

3. An ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work
   by sending an event that the helper task detects.

   See :ref:`microkernel_events`.

4. An ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work.
   by giving a semaphore that the helper task takes.

   See :ref:`microkernel_semaphores`.

5. A kernel-supplied ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work
   using a task IRQ that the helper task allocates.

   See :ref:`microkernel_task_irqs`.

When an ISR offloads work to a fiber there is typically a single
context switch to that fiber when the ISR completes.
Thus, interrupt-related processing usually continues almost immediately.
Additional intermediate context switches may be required
to execute any currently executing fiber
or any higher-priority fibers that are scheduled to run.

When an ISR offloads work to a task there is typically a context switch
to the microkernel server fiber, followed by a context switch to that task.
Thus, there is usually a larger delay before the interrupt-related processing
resumes than when offloading work to a fiber.
Additional intermediate context switches may be required
to execute any currently executing fiber or any higher-priority tasks
that are scheduled to run.

IDT Security
============

Ideally, the IDT memory area should be protected against accidental
modification, in the same way that text and read-only data areas
are protected.

Currently, the IDT is always located read-write memory and is
therefore *not* protected. This is true even for systems using
:abbr:`XIP (Execute in Place)`, where the text and read-only data areas
reside in read-only memory (such as flash memory or ROM).


APIs
****

These are the interrupt-related Application Program Interfaces.

:c:func:`irq_connect()`
   Registers a dynamic ISR with the IDT and interrupt controller.

:c:func:`irq_enable()`
   Enables interrupts from a specific IRQ.

:c:func:`irq_disable()`
   Disables interrupts from a specific IRQ.

:c:func:`irq_lock()`
   Locks out interrupts from all sources.

:c:func:`irq_unlock()`
   Removes lock on interrupts from all sources.

Macros
******

These are the macros used to install a static ISR.

:c:macro:`IRQ_CONNECT_STATIC( )`
   Registers a static ISR with the IDT.

:c:macro:`IRQ_CONFIG( )`
   Registers a static ISR with the interrupt controller.

Commit message:

interrupts: new static IRQ API
The interrupt API has been redesigned:

- irq_connect() for dynamic interrupts renamed to irq_connect_dynamic().
  It will be used in situations where the new static irq_connect()
  won't work, i.e. the value of arguments can't be computed at build time
- a new API for static interrupts replaces irq_connect(). it is used
  exactly the same way as its dynamic counterpart. The old static irq
  macros will be removed
- Separate stub assembly files are no longer needed as the stubs are now
  generated inline with irq_connect()

ReST documentation updated for the changed API. Some detail about the
IDT in ROM added, and an oblique reference to the internal-only
_irq_handler_set() API removed; we don't talk about internal APIs in
the official documentation.

Change-Id: I280519993da0e0fe671eb537a876f67de33d3cd4
Signed-off-by: Andrew Boie <andrew.p.boie@intel.com>

Former-commit-id: d9cfbd5a6102cd0be5869b9f98a5a067b7a60e14

doc/kernel/nanokernel/nanokernel_interrupts.rst, after:

.. _nanokernel_interrupts:

Interrupt Services
##################

Concepts
********

:abbr:`ISRs (Interrupt Service Routines)` are execution threads
that run in response to a hardware or software interrupt.
They are used to preempt the execution of the
task or fiber running at the time of the interrupt,
allowing the response to occur with very low overhead.
When an ISR completes its normal task and fiber execution resumes.

Any number of ISRs can be utilized in a Zephyr project, subject to
any hardware constraints imposed by the underlying hardware.
Each ISR has the following properties:

* The :abbr:`IRQ (Interrupt ReQuest)` signal that triggers the ISR.
* The priority level associated with the IRQ.
* The address of the function that is invoked to handle the interrupt.
* The argument value that is passed to that function.

An :abbr:`IDT (Interrupt Descriptor Table)` is used to associate a given interrupt
source with a given ISR.
Only a single ISR can be associated with a specific IRQ at any given time.
An ISR can be incorporated into the IDT when the Zephyr project is built
(a "static ISR") or bound to the IDT when the system is up and running
(a "dynamic ISR").

Multiple ISRs can utilize the same function to process interrupts,
allowing a single function to service a device that generates
multiple types of interrupts or to service multiple devices
(usually of the same type). The argument value passed to an ISR's function
can be used to allow the function to determine which interrupt has been
signaled.

The Zephyr kernel provides a default ISR for all unused IDT entries. This ISR
generates a fatal system error if an unexpected interrupt is signaled.

The kernel supports interrupt nesting. This allows an ISR to be preempted
in mid-execution if a higher priority interrupt is signaled. The lower
priority ISR resumes execution once the higher priority ISR has completed
its processing.

The kernel allows a task or fiber to temporarily lock out the execution
of ISRs, either individually or collectively, should the need arise.
The collective lock can be applied repeatedly; that is, the lock can
be applied when it is already in effect. The collective lock must be
unlocked an equal number of times before interrupts are again processed
by the kernel.

Purpose
*******

Use an ISR to perform interrupt processing that requires a very rapid
response, and which can be done quickly and without blocking.

.. note::

   Interrupt processing that is time consuming, or which involves blocking,
   should be handed off to a fiber or task. See `Offloading ISR Work`_ for
   a description of various techniques that can be used in a Zephyr project.

Installing an ISR
*****************

Use one of the following procedures to install an ISR:

* `Installing a Static ISR`_
* `Installing a Dynamic ISR`_

Installing a Static ISR
=======================

Use a static ISR to register an interrupt handler when the interrupt
parameters are known during the build time and the device is always
present in the system.

.. note::

   There is no API method to uninstall a static ISR; however, it is
   possible to replace it by installing a dynamic ISR.

Prerequisites
-------------

* Ensure that the platform used by the project supports static ISRs.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c

   #define MY_DEV_IRQ  24       /* device uses IRQ 24 */
   #define MY_DEV_PRIO  2       /* device uses interrupt priority 2 */
   /* argument passed to my_isr(), in this case a pointer to the device */
   #define MY_ISR_ARG  SYS_GET_DEVICE(my_device)
   #define MY_IRQ_FLAGS 0       /* IRQ flags. Unused on non-x86 */

   void my_isr(void *arg)
   {
      ... /* ISR code */
   }

   void my_isr_installer(void)
   {
      ...
      irq_connect(MY_DEV_IRQ, MY_DEV_PRIO, my_isr, MY_ISR_ARG, MY_IRQ_FLAGS);
      irq_enable(MY_DEV_IRQ);            /* enable IRQ */
      ...
   }

Installing a Dynamic ISR
========================

Use a dynamic ISR to register an interrupt handler when the interrupt
parameters can be found out only at runtime, or when a device is not always
present in the system.

Prerequisites
-------------

* Ensure that the platform used by the project supports dynamic ISRs.

* (x86 only) Set the :option:`NUM_DYNAMIC_STUBS` configuration option
  to specify the maximum number of dynamic ISRs allowed in the project.

Example
-------

This is an example of a dynamic interrupt for x86:

.. code-block:: c

   #define MY_DEV_IRQ 24        /* device uses IRQ 24 */
   #define MY_DEV_PRIO 2        /* device uses interrupt priority 2 */
   #define MY_ISR_ARG 17        /* argument passed to my_isr() */
   /* IRQ flags. Interrupt is triggered by low level signal */
   #define MY_IRQ_FLAGS (IOAPIC_LEVEL | IOAPIC_LOW)

   void my_isr(void *arg)
   {
      ... /* ISR code */
   }

   void my_isr_installer(void)
   {
       ...
       irq_connect_dynamic(MY_DEV_IRQ, MY_DEV_PRIO, my_isr, MY_ISR_ARG,
                           MY_IRQ_FLAGS);
       ...
       irq_enable(MY_DEV_IRQ);
       ...
   }

Working with Interrupts
***********************

Use the following:

* `Offloading ISR Work`_
* `IDT Security`_

Offloading ISR Work
===================

Interrupt service routines should generally be kept short
to ensure predictable system operation.
In situations where time consuming processing is required
an ISR can quickly restore the kernel's ability to respond
to other interrupts by offloading some or all of the interrupt-related
processing work to a fiber or task.

Zephyr OS provides a variety of mechanisms to allow an ISR to offload work
to a fiber or task.

1. An ISR can signal a helper fiber (or task) to do interrupt-related work
   using a nanokernel object, such as a FIFO, LIFO, or semaphore.
   The :c:func:`nano_isr_XXX()` APIs should be used to notify the helper fiber
   (or task) that work is available for it.

   See :ref:`fiber_services`.

2. An ISR can signal the microkernel server fiber to do interrupt-related
   work by sending an event that has an associated event handler.

   See :ref:`microkernel_events`.

3. An ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work
   by sending an event that the helper task detects.

   See :ref:`microkernel_events`.

4. An ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work.
   by giving a semaphore that the helper task takes.

   See :ref:`microkernel_semaphores`.

5. A kernel-supplied ISR can signal a helper task to do interrupt-related work
   using a task IRQ that the helper task allocates.

   See :ref:`microkernel_task_irqs`.

When an ISR offloads work to a fiber there is typically a single
context switch to that fiber when the ISR completes.
Thus, interrupt-related processing usually continues almost immediately.
Additional intermediate context switches may be required
to execute any currently executing fiber
or any higher-priority fibers that are scheduled to run.

When an ISR offloads work to a task there is typically a context switch
to the microkernel server fiber, followed by a context switch to that task.
Thus, there is usually a larger delay before the interrupt-related processing
resumes than when offloading work to a fiber.
Additional intermediate context switches may be required
to execute any currently executing fiber or any higher-priority tasks
that are scheduled to run.

IDT Security
============

Ideally, the IDT memory area should be protected against accidental
modification, in the same way that text and read-only data areas
are protected. If no dynamic interrupts are in use, i.e.
:option:`NUM_DYNAMIC_STUBS` is 0, the IDT will be located in ROM.

If a particular project is ROM space-constrained, it's possible to
force the IDT to be located in RAM via :option:`FORCE_IRQ_VECTOR_TABLE_RAM`.

APIs
****

These are the interrupt-related Application Program Interfaces.

:c:func:`irq_connect_dynamic()`
   Registers a dynamic ISR with the IDT and interrupt controller.

:c:func:`irq_enable()`
   Enables interrupts from a specific IRQ.

:c:func:`irq_disable()`
   Disables interrupts from a specific IRQ.

:c:func:`irq_lock()`
   Locks out interrupts from all sources.

:c:func:`irq_unlock()`
   Removes lock on interrupts from all sources.

Macros
******

These are the macros used to install a static ISR.

:c:macro:`irq_connect()`
   Registers a static ISR with the IDT.
